readme.md, before:

# Office JavaScript APIs

The JavaScript API for Office enables you to create web applications that interact with the object models in Office host applications. Your application will reference the office.js library, which is a script loader. The office.js library loads the object models that are applicable to the Office application that is running the add-in.

The NPM package for Office.js is a copy of what gets published to the official "evergreen" Office.js CDN, at **<https://appsforoffice.microsoft.com/lib/1/hosted/office.js>**.  The NPM also offers alpha and beta versions for faster-cadence beta-testing (relative to the slower-cadence [official BETA endpoint](https://appsforoffice.microsoft.com/lib/beta/hosted/office.js)).


## Installing

To install "office-js" locally via the NPM package, run

    npm install @microsoft/office-js --save

Once installed, the Office.js script reference can be used as

    <src script="node_modules\@microsoft\office-js\dist\office.js"></script>


## IntelliSense definitions

TypeScript definitions for Office.js are available.

* For **latest RELEASE version** of Office.js:
 * DefinitelyTyped: <https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/master/types/office-js/index.d.ts>
 * @types: `@types/office-js`.  (Acquire as `npm install @types/office-js --save-dev`)
* For **any version** (**including RELEASE**, but also including ALPHA, BETA, etc.):
  * Inside of the NPM package, under `dist/office.d.ts`
  * In this repo: [dist/office.d.ts](dis/office.d.ts)

Visual Studio 2017+ can use these same TypeScript definitions, even for regular JavaScript.  For JavaScript IntelliSense in earlier versions of Visual Studio, an `office-vsdoc.js` is available alongside the `office.js` file.  As long as you have a `Scripts/_references.js` file in your VS project, and as long as you substitute the existing triple-slash reference (`/// <reference path="https://.../office.js" />`) with the new location (the `-vsdoc` part gets substituted automatically, so use it just as you would in a `<script src="">` reference), you should have the corresponding JavaScript IntelliSense.


## Accessing the NPM files via a CDN

In addition to downloading the files locally, you can also use them via an external service like <https://unpkg.com>, which provides best-effort (no uptime guarantees) CDN hosting for npm packages.  This is especially useful for trying out alpha or beta builds.  To do so, simply change the script reference to:

    <src script="https://unpkg.com/@microsoft/office-js/dist/office.js"></script>

You can see the different versions of the NPM package listed in the dropdown on the top right at <https://unpkg.com/@microsoft/office-js/>.  This provides the alpha and beta versions as well.

To view the latest version numbers for each of the tags, you can also run the following command on the command-line:

    npm view @microsoft/office-js dist-tags --json

When you have a version number, can use it as follows with <https://unpkg.com>: (appending `@<version-#>` right after `office-js`; e.g., `.../office-js@1.1.2-alpha.0/dist/...`

    <src script="https://unpkg.com/@microsoft/office-js@1.1.2-alpha.0/dist/office.js"></script>


## Using an Alpha or Beta version with [Script Lab](https://aka.ms/script-lab)

To use a version of the NPM package with [Script Lab](https://aka.ms/script-lab), substitute the CDN reference and the `@types/office-js` reference with the NPM package name and version.  [Note: Script Lab uses <https://unpkg.com> for resolving the package names, so it's very similar guidance as above]:

![Using the NPM package with Script Lab](.github/images/script-lab-substitute-references.png)


## More info

For more information on Office Add-ins and the Office JavaScript APIs, see:

- [Office Add-ins platform overview](https://dev.office.com/docs/add-ins/overview/office-add-ins)
- [JavaScript API for Office reference](https://dev.office.com/reference/add-ins/javascript-api-for-office)

Commit message:

Added explanation for npm tags

readme.md, after:

# Office JavaScript APIs

The JavaScript API for Office enables you to create web applications that interact with the object models in Office host applications. Your application will reference the office.js library, which is a script loader. The office.js library loads the object models that are applicable to the Office application that is running the add-in.

The NPM package for Office.js is a copy of what gets published to the official "evergreen" Office.js CDN, at **<https://appsforoffice.microsoft.com/lib/1/hosted/office.js>**.  The NPM also offers alpha and beta versions for faster-cadence beta-testing (relative to the slower-cadence [official BETA endpoint](https://appsforoffice.microsoft.com/lib/beta/hosted/office.js)).


## Installing

To install "office-js" locally via the NPM package, run

    npm install @microsoft/office-js --save

Once installed, the Office.js script reference can be used as

    <src script="node_modules\@microsoft\office-js\dist\office.js"></script>


## IntelliSense definitions

TypeScript definitions for Office.js are available.

* For **latest RELEASE version** of Office.js:
 * DefinitelyTyped: <https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/master/types/office-js/index.d.ts>
 * @types: `@types/office-js`.  (Acquire as `npm install @types/office-js --save-dev`)
* For **any version** (**including RELEASE**, but also including ALPHA, BETA, etc.):
  * Inside of the NPM package, under `dist/office.d.ts`
  * In this repo: [dist/office.d.ts](dis/office.d.ts)

Visual Studio 2017+ can use these same TypeScript definitions, even for regular JavaScript.  For JavaScript IntelliSense in earlier versions of Visual Studio, an `office-vsdoc.js` is available alongside the `office.js` file.  As long as you have a `Scripts/_references.js` file in your VS project, and as long as you substitute the existing triple-slash reference (`/// <reference path="https://.../office.js" />`) with the new location (the `-vsdoc` part gets substituted automatically, so use it just as you would in a `<script src="">` reference), you should have the corresponding JavaScript IntelliSense.


## Accessing the NPM files via a CDN

In addition to downloading the files locally, you can also use them via an external service like <https://unpkg.com>, which provides best-effort (no uptime guarantees) CDN hosting for npm packages.  This is especially useful for trying out alpha or beta builds.  To do so, simply change the script reference to:

    <src script="https://unpkg.com/@microsoft/office-js/dist/office.js"></script>

You can see the different versions of the NPM package listed in the dropdown on the top right at <https://unpkg.com/@microsoft/office-js/>.  This provides the alpha and beta versions as well.

To view the latest version numbers for each of the tags, you can also run the following command on the command-line:

    npm view @microsoft/office-js dist-tags --json

When you have a version number, can use it as follows with <https://unpkg.com>: (appending `@<version-#>` right after `office-js`; e.g., `.../office-js@1.1.2-alpha.0/dist/...`

    <src script="https://unpkg.com/@microsoft/office-js@1.1.2-alpha.0/dist/office.js"></script>


## Production vs. Beta vs. Alpha versions

Office.js versioning is described in detail in <https://dev.office.com/docs/add-ins/develop/office-js-versioning>.  Importantly, there is a large difference between what is in the JS files, versus what are the capabilities of a particular computer (i.e., older or slower-to-update versions of office). 

The NPM package and the repo branches assume the following structure.

| NPM tag                      | Description   | Corresponding CDN location | Repo branch
| ---------------------------- |-------------- | -------------------------- |
| Default (`latest`)           | The latest of the publicly-available APIs | <https://appsforoffice.microsoft.com/lib/**1**/hosted/office.js> | `master`
| `beta` / `beta-prerelease`   | Forthcoming APIs, not necessarily ready for public consumption yet (and may still change...), but likely available on Insider Fast (and maybe Insider Slow) builds | <https://appsforoffice.microsoft.com/lib/**beta**/hosted/office.js> | `beta` / `beta-prerelease`
| `alpha` / `alpha-prerelease` | Forthcoming APIs, not ready for public consumption yet (and *will* likely change...). *Might* be available on Insider Fast builds | N/A | `alpha` / `alpha-prerelease`
| `private`                    | Any flavor of a release, but deployed for a very specific customer / need. Unlike the other tags, successive versions of this tag are not necessarily cumulative updates; it is possible to have a `1.1.2-private.1` that has the alpha JS, and then a `1.1.2-private.2` that only contains the publicly-available APIs (with some tweaks) | N/A | N/A



## Using an Alpha or Beta version with [Script Lab](https://aka.ms/script-lab)

To use a version of the NPM package with [Script Lab](https://aka.ms/script-lab), substitute the CDN reference and the `@types/office-js` reference with the NPM package name and version.  [Note: Script Lab uses <https://unpkg.com> for resolving the package names, so it's very similar guidance as above]:

![Using the NPM package with Script Lab](.github/images/script-lab-substitute-references.png)


## More info

For more information on Office Add-ins and the Office JavaScript APIs, see:

- [Office Add-ins platform overview](https://dev.office.com/docs/add-ins/overview/office-add-ins)
- [JavaScript API for Office reference](https://dev.office.com/reference/add-ins/javascript-api-for-office)
